So in the last lectures, we already made some progress,
now let's have a look at which other options we can set up on our strategies when using workboxSW
strategies and then picking one of the strategies.
Of course, I'll also introduce you to alternative strategies.
So let's first have a look at alternative strategies,
here they are.
You have cache first, cache only, network first, network only and staleWhileRevalidate.
Now this is the one we're currently using,
staleWhileRevalidate and the other one should be pretty self-explanatory.
Cache first means that it tries to get it from the cache and falls back to the network
if we don't find it there, it's not the same as staleWhileRevalidate where we will always reach out to
the network, just as in cache then network. Cache only obviously means it will just look at the cache, we
have network first which allows you to reach out to the network first and to the cache if that fails
and network only to only reach out to the network.
Now there are also different options besides cache name.
So if we scroll down on this page and you can find this page in the last lecture of this module too,
if we scroll down, you see the options you can pass to all the strategies.
Here you see an example, it's simply a Javascript object passed to the strategy as we already do it and we already
use cache name.
Now as you see, other things you can use is cache expiration which also takes a Javascript object and there you
can for example limit the cache entries to 10
and then for every new entry, the oldest one will be removed.
You can also define an age for the cache,
that's pretty cool because workbox will manage this timer behind the scenes through indexedDB,
so it'll basically store a timestamp on every item it adds and then whenever it basically takes
action, it checks the timestamps and sees if something needs to be removed due to your age set up here
and this is in seconds as it implies.
So here you can really control that items only stay in the cache for let's say a day, a week, two weeks,
whatever you need.
You can broadcast a cache update,
now this is something advanced where you could listen to this message,
not really something you use that often probably. The cache it will respond to is interesting since here
in this object,
you can define which statuses should be cached, so you could say I only want to cache success statuses
and that's actually the default
but you could also say I'm also interested in not found errors
for whatever reason or you say, I want to analyze the headers of the response. So only if the header
for example is content-type HTML, only then I want to store it
and that is the core set up.
Now here you can read more about that
but these are the main things to set up, the workbox toolset also is still growing,
so chances are this is getting better documentation and more options in the future
but for now, this is the feature set you can work with.
Definitely check this page again in case you want to dive deeper into something
and let's use this cache expiration in our project now.
Let's say that we want to store these fonts but only for a certain amount of time because that includes
the material icons and if they update, maybe we don't get the latest ones, even though we do we use
the staleWhileRevalidate which will update it
but still, let's add cache expiration here and you'll see that's this option.
It takes an argument or a value which is another Javascript object and there you can specify max
entries and/or max age seconds, we can use either of the two or both together.
So here I'm saying max entries, that should be three because I'm not aware that my project has more three,
so I don't want to store more than three and max age seconds and let's say I want to make sure that I fetch
update versions, at least once a month.
So here I could say I want to fetch it every 60 seconds times 60 minutes per hour times 24 hours per
day times maybe 30 days per month.
So this set up again means every 60 seconds
but that's not enough so every hour is if we multiply it by 60, every day is if we multiply it by 24, every
month is if we multiply by 30, 31, 28, whatever you like.
So this is now my Google fonts as set up
and let's see what this changed.
So I'll open up the terminal and run npm run
generate-sw, npm start is still running in the other tab for me and I'll have a look at this now.
So here, I'll again clear my storage to start fresh,
reload,
reload again to give the dynamic cache a chance of filling up
and now if we refresh this, in Google fonts we still see these items
but now if you refresh indexedDB and make sure to close and open your developer tools in case this is
not working, you'll see there's not only your post store,
there is the precaching set up for one, here all the asset revisions are tracked
and that's what I meant with if we update a file and rerun the generate command, it will give changed
files a new hash and update it here to make sure that it then fetches them new
but we also get this cache expiration storage for Google fonts
and here you see the different elements with their timestamps.
Timestamps are also stored here
and then again this mapping of the timestamp and the asset and this timestamp is basically what workbox
manages and checks automatically for us to remove elements from our cache here,
so from Google fonts whenever one month passed after this item has been added or updated for
the last time.
So this is another cool and powerful feature using these options and especially managing cache expiration.